> Downloaded from https://tho-otto.de/crossmint.php

# Basic packages

My selection : 

```
repository/
├── binutils-2.44-mintelf-20250415-bin-linux64.tar.xz
├── fdlibm-20240425-mintelf-dev.tar.xz
├── gcc-15.2.0-mintelf-20250810-bin-linux64.tar.xz
├── gdb-17.0-mintelf-20250415-bin-linux64.tar.xz
├── gemlib-0.44.0-mintelf-20240425-dev.tar.xz
├── mintbin-0.4-mintelf-20230911-bin-linux64.tar.xz
└── mintlib-0.60.1-mintelf-20240718-dev.tar.xz
```

## binutils

The binutils are a collection of low-level language tools.
The full documentation can be found [here](https://sourceware.org/binutils/docs-2.42/).

Note that official support for m68k-aout has been removed since binutils-2.31.
This is a version where that support has been added back in.
New For the mintelf toolchains, [GDB](https://tho-otto.de/crossmint.php#gdb) is now also available.


## GCC 15.2.0

This is the currently most recent official version of GCC. It comes in two flavours: one for an a.out toolchain (as with the previously used version 4.6.4), and one for an elf toolchain. Elf toolchain here means that it will still produce the same executable format, but works with elf object files. To support this better, all libraries offered here were also recompiled using this format.

**Note:** This version now was compiled against fdlibm; it is strongly recommended to use fdlibm instead of the ancient pml math library. 


## MiNTBin

MiNTBin has been written by Guido Flohr. It is a set of tools for manipulating the MiNT executables generated by ld. They are a complement to the binutils. The main tools are stack for setting the stack size of an executable, and flags for setting the header flags. 


## GDB

GDB, the GNU debugger, allows you to debug programs written in C, C++, Java, and other languages, by executing them in a controlled fashion and printing their data.
Source & patches are part of the binutils package. 


# Library packages

Note that these packages only contain atari/mint specific files, so there is only one package of them for all host systems. They have all been built and packaged on linux though (with a prefix of /usr), so to install them for eg. MinGW you should unpack them using

    tar -C <your-install-dir> --strip-components=1 -xf <archive>.

All of these libraries have been compiled with gcc 7.x, but they can be used with other versions, too. Also, they all have been compiled for the elf toolchain. Most of these were compiled with -flto (link-time-optimization), a feature that is not available for a.out libraries. For some (notably mintlib) this is not yet possible.

 

For packages that also build binaries, the *-dev packages will have executables in <sys-root>/usr/bin that were compiled for 68k.

 

For native installation, there will also be *-bin packages for other machines. Do not install these on a cross-development environment(at least not to your usual installation directory), as this may overwrite your system binaries.

They are meant to be installed in a MiNT environment, and therefore were packaged with paths like /usr/bin. In general, the binaries won't be of much use in a cross-development installation. 


## MiNTLib

MiNTLib is a standard C library. It allows you to build software which runs on MiNT and TOS operating systems. Unlike other packages, I used the latest sources from the CVS repository instead of the latest official release.

Libraries include -mfastcall variants 


## fdlibm

fdlibm is a portable math library that was originally
developed by Sun Microsystems.
You should be able to use it at a replacement for PML, but note that all packages provided here were compiled using PML.
For a comparison to PML, see [Math libraries for Atari](https://tho-otto.de/math.php)

Libraries include -mfastcall variants 


## GEMlib

GEMlib allows you to write graphical programs using GEM.
It is maintained by Arnaud Bercegeay; the official releases are available on the [GEMlib's homepage](http://arnaud.bercegeay.free.fr/gemlib). However, the latest sources are available on the FreeMiNT's GitHub repository.

Libraries include -mfastcall variants 


